Let's continue now with the arms.
And for these we're going to create the bones sticking straight up so we won't have to turn them for
these Let's select one of these.
Move the cursor to it cursor to selected shift a and then if we select the bone now with our active
element selected we can hit s and scale this down quite a bit let's do the same thing here cursor to
selected I'll press shift a select bone it s and bring it down like so we'll get the risk bone here
as well and I'm creating all of these in the front view just so they're consistent shift a select s
scaled down like this now we need to do a similar thing for each of the finger bones this can get a
little tedious but it is well worth it I think so let's select this tip right here move the cursor to
it I'm going to go to the front view again shift a and let's scale this one down
it's like this cursor to selected shift a
look down
and then this one as well
and scale it down.
Now the good thing is is once we get them all done on one side we're gonna just mirror them over so
we don't have to worry too much about it I'm gonna get this right here let's move the cursor to it and
we go shift a s and scale this down now what I am gonna do for these is take this right here and just
move it straight down.
So I'm gonna hit G and Z and just drag straight down like that and we go just so we can see it a little
better let's move the cursor to this one shift a scale down and as I said I'll just drag this g into
the drag it down like that.
Move the cursor once again create the bone scale it down grab that tip Gee and easy and drag it straight
down.
Okay so there we have the hands.
We need to take these and move these up above the hands just a bit because our control objects are going
to hover over and under the hand just a bit.
So I will just take these and move these up like this and I will take these and move these down like
this just a little bit outside of the hand there.
All right let's keep going.
I will create a control object for the foot control right here.
Let's go ahead and select this tip right there.
Let's take the cursor to it and then what let's do is create the bone.
However I don't think that'll work.
We want the center of that control object to be right at the base of the foot when we take that control
object and zero out the transforms.
We want to know that it's flat on the ground.
So what we should probably do instead is actually select the bottom of the foot and move the cursor
to it.
Let's take a look at that.
I'll tap back into object mode and select the character.
And now it's tab and edit mode and I'm thinking that what we should do is select these points right
along here.
These two edges and if we change our pivot point to median point and go back to the move tool you can
see where the center of that selection is.
Now I think maybe we want it more like here.
If we select just that edge maybe that's where we want it.
We could select this edge again and yeah that moves it over a little too much.
I kind of like it right there.
So let's just move that cursor to this point now shift s cursor to selected.
Yeah.
Now that's the way we want it.
We don't want this particular control to be up at the ankle.
We want it to be right flat on the ground.
All right.
So now let's create this bone.
Let's go back to the rig and then we go to edit mode here with the cursor there.
Let's press shift a and there's our bone.
Let's select it change back to active element and now we can scale this down but in addition we need
to rotate it back so it's flat on the ground.
So let's do that.
Let's go to our rotate tool click and control and let's turn that down.
Ninety degrees there and maybe I'll take this and move it back.
Let's take this and move it straight back I mean go back to our median point and I just want to move
this straight back like this something like that.
There we go.
OK so this is now going to be called we'll call this foot control underscore CEO control object.
Now did I name these up here.
No I did not.
So we're going to need to go through and name all of these as well.
Let's call this up arm underscore CEO dot l will call this low arm underscore SEO dot l.
This one we will call hand underscore SEO dot L and then we're gonna do all of these.
So let's do a finger 1 underscore SEO for control object dot l This will be finger 2 underscore SEO
dot l finger 3
dot l.
There we go and now these down here.
You know let me just type in thumb 1 underscore SEO dot L and then I'll just select this I should make
that a 1 then I will select this press control see the copy and now select this click their press control
V and now it can change that one to a 2 and we'll do that here as well control the and change that one
to a 3 and we go.
All right now let's work on these bones so we have this bone here that we're gonna use to control the
but we've got this bone here that we're going to use to control the foot as well or least the toe and
then we have this bone for the knee so we need control objects for all of those as well.
So first of all this one.
Let's just choose this tip right here and move the cursor to it and then I'll switch back to active
element go to the front view press shift a select that bone and let's scale this down like this go to
the side view and I think this will be just fine like this let's give it a name let's call this foot
roll underscore SEO dot L and let's work on the toe so for this if we select this and move the cursor
to it and we go now let's press shift data create the bone let's scale it down and for this one I think
we need it out just a little bit like this let's move it out like this and let's also move it right
about here just one it kind of in front of the toe we're gonna have this one behind the heel and this
one can be up in front of the toe like that so let's call this one toe underscore SEO dot L and we go
and for this one we need a control object out here as well so let's select this bone and move the cursor
to it right here.
Well I'd like it right here at the base of the bone so let's change to individual or excuse me median
points and just select that.
Now let's move the cursor to it and we go and then if we change it back to active element we can press
shift a create the bone select it scale it and this time once again I'm going to grab the tip of this
bone and pull it straight down so cheesy and drop it down below like that OK.
So this one is going to be knee underscore SEO dot l.
All right.
So do we have everything.
We've got the knee the toe the foot control the foot roll we've got the hips the two bones of the torso
the arms and the hands.
I think that's it.
So what let's do in the next video is select all the bones on the left side of the character and mirror
them over to the right and then we'll begin parenting the bones.
So the control objects will eventually move with the character and the characters limbs.